# CS-340

Cody Gregory


CS-340-H7516 Client/Server Development 22EW1

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

My process for writing programs begins with the goals of the project. I outline the goals, because if the program doesn't achieve them, well then it isn't a very good program. I strive for readability not only for the sake of others, but for myself in development. If code exists that is not inherently obvious as to its function I make comments, which not only serves to help those that may be reviewing the code after the fact, but also helps me during development understand my thought processes and stay organized so that the code is well maintained and can easily be adapted. In project two I feel that working in this way brought me success. I was able to utilize prior functions from the CRUD Python module with ease and adapt them to create the filters that are used by the dashboard. Looking to the future I feel that the CRUD Python module is going to be foundational to my knowledge of working with databases, in the scope of project two it could be used for any purpose, not just for rescue dogs but even to highlight certain categories of animals for adoption, find what animals have been in the system the longest, or the shortest. What animals would be eligible for certain programs based off age. The possibilities are many and the resources to do them all exist in some form of the CRUD Python module. 

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

As a CS major, one of the biggest parts of the job is being able to take a big problem and break it down into smaller ones. Often on assignments when I first read the requirements / prompt I get a feeling of anxiety, that I don't know how I'm going to solve such a complex problem. The trick is not to get lost in the big picture, take it one step at a time, and before you know it you have something actionable. In the case of our dashboard for example I began with something simple, the html components. I knew I needed a title, I needed buttons, I needed space for a graph, and a logo. All of these components could be done one at a time, and step by step as I completed the tasks at the end I was met with a visually complete dashboard. From this point on I began implementing the function behind all of the components I had created and attached them do the dashboard one by one as I completed them. As far as this approach differed from previous assignments, I would say the larger scope of the project simply required more of it as opposed to prior assignments that were much smaller in scope. There was also the consideration that project two was the culmination of prior assignments as well, so while in other assignments more coding may have been involved in project two an important step was integrating those existing snippets into the dashboard to make a complete product. 

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientists are problem solvers. They take ideas and turn them into something tangible. One of the most common ways computer scientists can help companies is through automation. By recognizing patterns and repetitive tasks, such as identifying dogs by specific parameters, much time and effort can be saved by implementing systems that do the repetitive work for you, allowing the company to achieve their goals in a more fluid manner. 
